New Paths, Lessons and The So-Called Destiny!

I heard this line somewhere which goes like: “Sometimes you need to stop
raising the bar to actually notice the progress you have made!”

So I kind of stopped everything I was doing and started to think…

How was I a year ago?! Probably hopeless and unmotivated.

Now then, 2 years ago?! Full of confusion and so much to take in (don’t
tell this outside, but I was scared as hell too).

Now lastly, 3 years ago?! In hell — certainly in all those JEE rank this
and that.

And for sure, between all these phases, I can most certainly tell — I
was never ever this happy and confident like I am right now. My younger
self never thought I would be the way I am right now. He would be
shocked and probably jealous too.

Now this whole thing got me thinking — What did I do right?! Like what
did I do to reach this comfort in life? Was it letting people in? Or was
I just lucky and chose the right path?! Or is it the so-called destiny?
Can I really call it luck?! There are too many coincidences — this can’t
be just luck.

There is a saying that goes like: “If a country attracts you, you should
definitely go visit it. There is most probably a story waiting for you
which is already written!”

So I applied this same thing to people too. If life throws people at
you, then be real you and share your true thoughts without any thought
of “What would they think?” Because most probably, a story is written
with them which can be life-changing. And nobody wants to pretend in
their own story. So for that to happen, you need to show your true self
first. The longer you pretend, the farther you get from the “lesson”
life wants to give you.

Now this whole thing sounds like destiny nonsense. But I don’t believe
in this whole destiny thing. Now I also don’t really know what else to
call it, and I don’t really know what’s happening. So yeah… you can call
it destiny.

If my younger self read this or heard my thoughts, he would be like —
what the hell dude, all nonsense. No such thing exists.

And yeah, I don’t blame him. Even I am still processing all the things
that have happened in my life lately. And he didn’t experience those. So
there’s nothing wrong in him seeing all this as nonsense.

Now from all this self-reflection, the conclusion I have given myself is
that —

If you notice that The writers have changed the plot, And the main
character has grown, You’re meeting new casting members, And the set
looks different from earlier,

Then it’s a new season. A NEW season of life.

And for this new season to start, You have to accept the change and also
trust it’s for your own good. Only then can you embrace the Joy of your
self-growth.
