Don’t mistake Solitude as your eternal Solace
It’s just a temporary solution for a permanent pain.

I am not just talking about literal words but also how we consider
Solitude as our solace often times.

This happens— The world we trusted betrays us, opening up a wound not
visible to everyone. And sadly, for those to whom it’s visible, they
don’t really care much about it. And those who truly want to help can’t
really do anything to fix it.

Now our mind falls into a state where it thinks if we don’t engage with
this cruel world, which can potentially open up more such wounds, we
will be at peace. So even though we don’t like it that much, we distance
ourselves from everything and everyone. With time, this state of
solitude becomes the only solace.

We know this peace is obviously not complete peace, but the thought of
getting hurt again feels far worse than searching for complete peace. So
forcefully, we remain in solitude.

Now is this good?
Well, until you are ready to heal — yes, it is.

And how does this healing start?
By accepting the world again. Not completely, but at least partially —
with lessons learnt.

Because at the end of the day— The very same world which opened up the
wound will also heal that wound. It may or may not be the same group of
people that hurt you, but surely some group or an individual will heal
you.

And for that to happen, first you need to accept the world again. This
is the hardest part.

But in my opinion, after this whole solitude phase, many won’t even have
people left to accept into their lives. But if you are lucky enough to
have such people, then surely it’s worth the risk of getting hurt.
Accept them.

A broken vase will remain broken unless we try to fix it.
It needs to be fixed in order to function again.
Ignoring the vase will destroy its functionality.

Similarly,
A broken soul needs people — not solitude.

Solitude is just a time period to reflect on ourselves and our people,
but not a complete state to live in. The longer the solitude, the more a
person forgets how to live and just tries to survive.

But hey,
We are humans after all. The thing that makes us special is our ability
to live life — not just survive it.

A person truly feels alive when they have people who make them feel
alive. That’s what true solace is, and what we truly deserve.
